Welcome to the first video in
the data driven
decision making course.
We want to introduce
you to Dan DiFilippo.
Dan is going to be one of
your main instructors
for this course.
In this first video,
Dan will provide you
with an overview
of what data and analytics is.
As you move through the course,
you'll go into more
detail about many of
the topics introduced
in this video.
We'll be back again at the end of
the week to talk about
what you've learned.
Thanks Amity and Mike.
I lead a global team that helps
clients use the data they
have and the data they
need to make better
and faster decisions.
Rapid technology change means
how we deal with data is
fundamentally
different today than
it was just a few years ago.
In this session, I'll
discuss what data and
analytics is and
why it's important,
the impact it's
having on business,
and how it can help organizations
make better and faster decisions.
First, what do we mean by data?
Webster's defines data as
a collection of facts,
observations, or other
information related
to a particular
question or problem.
Data can be structured
or unstructured.
Structured data is information
with a high degree of
organization that could be
included in databases
or spreadsheets,
and is easily searchable by
simple search engine algorithms.
Think of how a multiple
choice question forces
your answer into a
predefined category.
Unstructured data is the
opposite and is
usually text-heavy,
though it may contain video,
data or numbers,
and facts as well.
Think of an open
field text box that
allows you to provide additional
comments on a survey.
Adding to the complexity,
data can also come
from a variety of
internal and external
sources for organizations.
The conversation gets really
interesting when we look at
the wide variety of data
available to us today and the
powerful analytics that can
be applied to that data.
Analytics is the
science of examining
raw data in order to
draw conclusions about
the information.
It's an exciting field and is
dramatically impacting how
organizations in many industries
are making decisions.
The availability
of huge volumes of
structured and
unstructured data sets,
combined with advanced
computing capabilities,
low-cost storage, and powerful
visualization technology,
is enabling organizations
to gain insight once
technologically impossible
or economically impractical.
It is also enabling
new entities to startup
and scale quickly,
which can bring great benefit to
the market and to society,
but can also be very
disruptive and challenge
the status quo.
Where's all this
data coming from?
From market research
and social media to
the network of physical objects
we call the Internet of things.
The world we live in
today is creating
a constant and ever
increasing stream of data.
For most organizations,
the data they can
access is increasing at a
rate of 40 percent each year,
which creates
significant challenges
in the way data is
captured and secured,
organized, analyzed,
and reported.
Lets quickly touch on three ways
that data and analytics is
impacting business today.
First, data is enabling
new products and services,
creating markets that
didn't previously exist,
and bringing new capabilities
to existing markets.
Second, it is disrupting
existing markets with
innovative upstarts,
unseating traditionally secure
businesses. Think of Uber.
Third, data and analytics
is driving increased efficiency.
For example, retailers
have the ability
to automate and optimize
their supply chain,
tailoring offerings
for customers,
making services such as
Amazon same-day delivery in
major US cities,
logistically possible.
In short, data's providing
organizations the ability to
identify growth opportunities,
drive innovation, operate
more efficiently,
and manage risk in new ways.
If data can do all that,
organization simply
must use it to
stay competitive. But how?
Organizations have
always used data in
some form to inform
their decisions.
But the volume, variety,
and velocity of data available
today presents huge challenges.
Traditional approaches
to data analysis,
identify a problem or
business opportunity,
collect data and
use spreadsheets or
software to understand
it, no longer apply.
The volume of information
today is simply too
high and the time
frames way too short.
Confronting these challenges
can lead to immense reward.
Smart organizations are
taking advantage of data and
analytics to gain a clearer
picture of their business.
They are using new technologies
such as data visualization,
the presentation of data in
a pictorial or
graphical format to
help decision makers see
analytics presented visually,
and more easily
identify new patterns.
This insight is powerful
and can fundamentally
change the speed and
sophistication of decision making.
At PwC, we work with clients to
effectively use data in every
part of their business.
From customer acquisition,
talent retention,
and market expansion
to reporting results,
meeting compliance requirements
and managing risk.
We'll talk more about
applying data and analytics
in business settings as
part of this course.
In future videos, we'll look
at some examples and talk to
PwC professionals to help
bring these concepts to life.
Let's quickly recap
what we covered in
this short introduction
to data and analytics.
We talked about structured
and unstructured data and how
the explosion of
data is leading to
new business challenges
and opportunities.
We talked about how
important it is for
organizations to take
advantage of all that data.
We spoke about how
new technologies can help to
do that by aggregating and
presenting data in meaningful
and impactful ways
that can help companies
make better decisions.
Thanks for watching, and I
hope you enjoy the
rest of the sessions.